---
title: "Modern Vue Architecture: Introduction"
slug: "modern-vue-arch-intro"
description: "Introducing modern Vue architecture to set developers and team up for success."
date: 2021-07-10 09:03:27
tags:
    - modern-vue-architecture
cover:
fullscreen: false
---

## Hello World

For the last few years, I have been involved in many architectural decisions for scaling front-end codebases. As features and teams grow, so do the complexity of repos we manage. The truth is, much of the technical debt we introduce may never go away. It's our job to reduce the amount that gets in. I hope this guide will set you up with a solid foundation to set you and your team up for success.

The goal of this is not to come out with a forkable boilerplate by the end. Some of the concepts I introduce may not hit the mark for you. That's okay. If you are leading a team or starting a new project, it is important you take into consideration your team's ideas and feelings. I have found just because I like a certain technology or pattern that doesn't necessarily mean it is the right choice for the team as a whole.

I should note this assumes you will be building some sort of SPA. If you are building your Vue applications differently, for example, with [Inertia](https://inertiajs.com/) some of this may not be applicable. Or maybe you do not need the full power of a SPA framework then perhaps you reach for something like [Petite Vue](https://github.com/vuejs/petite-vue).

## How to Follow

In this blog series I'll introduce different sections and ideas as if you were starting a project on Day 1. There are some technologies that I think are vital for success in 2021. Others are more for consideration and I'll try to remember to point those out. I think maybe at the end of each section I will say what _I_ would personally choose. For those of us that are paralyzed by choices. I understand you and feel your pain.

## Why Not...?

My focus here will be starting a Vue application from scratch. You may wonder why not use some of the other Vue frameworks or boilerplates that exist. This is a totally valid point. Consider your project's requirements and see if they match. If they do, great! Use it!

So what are some other projects you might consider first?

- [Nuxt](https://nuxtjs.org/)
- [Gridsome](https://gridsome.org/)
- [Vue Enterprise Boilerplate](https://github.com/bencodezen/vue-enterprise-boilerplate)
- [Nuxt Boilerplate](https://github.com/debs-obrien/nuxt-boilerplate-project)

And with that. Let's begin!
